Hello and welcome back to the course in
R programming and today we're back at
aesthetics and that's because I would
like to give you some tips on how to
strategically approach your chart
creation process with ggplot. Alright
let's go into R studio, so this is
where we stopped last time. We look at
histograms density chart and today I'm
going to give you some starting layer
tips.
Alright let's look at what like a simple
histogram that we were you know how
much great. So what's our next letter is
T , T is our next letter, we'll
say ggplot and you by now I am sure
you're getting used to typing on ggplot
plot, ggplot it's it's becoming part of
your skill set.
Alright movies aesthetics extra equals
audience rating right? So that's going to
be our T we've prepared our data, we've
prepared our aesthetic and now what are
we going to overlay what geometry? We're going
to say geom histogram and here we want
been with as well you know equals 10 and
then let's say we already know how to
give it color. So we want to, what are we
doing here are we setting or are we mapping?
That's right, we're setting here because
we are not using the static function.
We're not connecting the color to a
variable we're connecting it to a value
we're relying on the underlying value of
that word which is white and then we'll
say color equals and blue, that's the
border.
Alright so if I run these two lines
you'll see that this is the distribution
of audience ratings for the movies
between 2007-2011 and you can see that
it is somewhere around the mean is
around like 50 maybe 60 somewhere there
and so it is a bit above average and
then it's like a normal distribution and
as it should be.
Right, so because we've got lots and lots
of people and people are like just human
beings and human beings often behave in
a normally distributed way. We can
actually observe that there, which is
pretty
cool in when you think about it.
Alright what we're talking about here is
actually how what other way could have
we achieved this plot. Well let's see,
another way another way to achieve the
same thing. We could have said T and this
should come from the knowledge that you
already have from the section. So ggplot
and we could have just said simply data equals
movies and we didn't have to specify
aesthetic right away because just specify T
like that and when then we could have
said all of this T plus. All of this and
the aesthetic would have been somewhere
inside here. We could've said aesthetic X
equals audience rating, right? Do you
agree? That we could have one way is
reset the aesthetic at the start in this
in the base layer and then we add the
geometry with all these other things or
the other way is we don't set this
aesthetic to start we actually set it
inside our geometry. So if I run this
line I should get exactly the same
result. Viola! It is the same and right
makes sense so doesn't matter here like
where we're basically over riding using
the overriding process where over riding
an aesthetic but their aesthetic didn't
even exist in the start. So because we
only have this one layer that it doesn't
make a difference which way we do it. So
the question is which way do we do it and
before we answer that question I wanted
to say this is going to be our fourth
chart in our presentation. So we'll copy it
in at the end of this tutorial.
So what's the difference? How why would
you do it this way or what would you do
it that way? Well it really depends on
what you want from your visualization
process, which one from the data? If you
are set in what you're visualizing, if
you know that you're going to be using
this object just to visualize audience
rating and maybe once in a while you
will override it if you really need to.
Then you can go ahead and use this
approach and then you know one chart
will be this then the next chart will be
something else might be a point chart or
a line chart or a bar chart or or
anything but also relying on this aesthetic,
but if on the other hand you want more
flexibility. So
you don't want to always visualize X as
audience rating, you want to show you
might want to visualize the budget as
the x-axis. So you might want to
visualize genre on the x-axis, then you
might want to use this approach and when
could that happen? When would you want that
flexibility? When one then one of the
examples is what we're doing now when
we're exploring the data set. When you're
exploring the data when you don't
know exactly what you want. You might
want that extra flexibility so it's
faster for you and to adapt your charts
and in that case you might want to just
create this T object. So use you know
that every time it's going to be the
same data set and if you look through
what we've been doing it every single
time we've been using the same data set.
That's just because we only have one
with us so that's definitely a good
start and that's set in stones. You might
want to start by doing that and then you
just build onto that with new layers
with different aesthetics within those
layers. So I 'll show you an example right
away, so here we could just simply take
this. We could create this chart and we
could just replace here and just one
word in fact critic ratings and then if
we run this, you see that that is the
critical thing. I didn't have to do much.
I didn't have to recreate the T variable
whereas if I use this approach, I would
have had to recreate the T variable
first because the aesthetic is in there
and then do that or I would have to
override aes, I could have used the same
thing I could have over ridden the
variable but Mike overriding is moreover
a one-off or a tool off thing like you
don't do it rarely, don't rely on
overriding all the time because it's not, it's not
the best coding practice and what
do we have here? Well another very
interesting observation. The critic
rating is actually different to the
audience rating. So this was our audience
rating normally distributed. Critic
rating looks like it's more uniformly
distributed and that is a function or
the reason for that is that critics
actually rely on the judgment and their
professional that they you know they
don't have a bias like people are most
people like ok right here plus minus
only the movies really battle
rated their it's really good already
that they're gonna stick around like
over here and that's why we see a normal
distribution. Critics they have a certain
set of rules or certain set of like
parameters that they assess movies based
on you know you look at the camera work,
they look at the audio, they look at like
the acting of the actors and so on and
then they're set so that is what's
changing normal description into a
uniform distribution. I think this is a
very interesting observation and I think
we need to include both of these charts
and in our final presentation because
everything to do with human behavior is
ultimately very interesting so once
again export then you just said it. I
kind of like that a resolution so if I
save that and if I say that let me do
this one quickly.
Ok let's I think that just didn't update
the preview.
Alright so what do we have? We've got
five and six right? So if I take this one
and put it here and then if I take this
one put here so there you go so we've
already got three out of six charts.
Beautiful, awesome.
Alright so some interesting insights
today and some tips hopefully you'll
take that to heart and look into that
last thing I want to show you is
sometimes sometimes very rarely you
would say something like ggplot just
brackets. This is called the skeleton
plot and why would you use it? Well you'll use
it in the case when you want to create a
plot but you want to use different
data sets on that plot and that is also
very valid approach you can do that, you
can run that I 'll have a completely
empty plate without even a data set in
it and then I can set the data inside my
plot layers that I add on to this
skeleton plot.
Ok so that brings us to the end of
today's tutorial and I look forward to
seeing you next time until then, happy coding.